[DOCS] Adds content on Document Explorer (#123086)
elastic/kibana: docs/discover/document-explorer.asciidoc

[[document-explorer]]
== Document Explorer

beta::[]

> *Discover* has a new *Document Explorer* with resizable columns, better data sorting and comparison,

Reviewer: This sentence is very 8.0.0-specific. Are you planning to update this for 8.1.0? Maybe we keep `new` things in the release docs?

and a full screen view.

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/document-explorer.png[Document Explorer with improved look over classic view]

To use the *Document Explorer* instead of the classic document table:

. Open *Discover*.
. In the toolbar, click *Options*, and then click *Try Document Explorer*.
. Turn off the classic view and save the changes.

[float]
[[document-explorer-columns]]
=== Reorder and resize columns

> Reorder and resize columns in the *Document Explorer* with drag and drop.

Reviewer: Instead of restating the title, maybe include the value prop? Why would users want to reorder and resize their columns? Better organization? Better view of their data?

To reorder columns, do one of the following:

* Click *Columns*. In the pop-up, select the column you want to move and drag it to the new location.

* Click the header of the column you want to move. In the dropdown menu, click *Move left* or *Move right*.

To resize a column, drag the right edge of the column header until the column is the size that you want.

> Column widths are stored with a saved search.  When you reuse your saved search in a dashboard, it displays the same way as it does in Discover.

Reviewer 2: LGTM, what do you think about adding one more screen in this section?

> Column widths are stored with a saved search.  When you reuse your saved search in a dashboard, it displays the same way as it does in Discover.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Column widths are stored with a saved search.  When you visualize saved searches on dashboards, the saved search appears the same as in **Discover**.
```

[float]
[[document-explorer-sort-data]]
=== Sort data

Sort your data by one or more fields, in ascending or descending order.

> The default sort is based on the time field, from new to old.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The default is based on the time field, from new to old.
```

> . In the *Document Explorer*, click the *field sorted* link.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In the *Document Explorer*, click and open the *field sorted* options.
```

+
[role="screenshot"]
image::images/document-explorer-sort-data.png[Pop-up in Document Explorer for sorting columns, width="75%"]

> . In the pop-up, expand the dropdown menu to add more fields to the sort.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. To add more fields, expand the dropdown menu.
```

Reviewer: What dropdown menu? Does this refer to the **Pick fiends to sort by** dropdown?

+
By default, columns in a multi-field are sorted in the order they are added.

> This example sorts first by `order_date`, and then by `geo.country_iso_code`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, to sort by `order_date` then `geo.country_iso_code`, make sure `order_date` appears first.

+
[role="screenshot"]
image::images/document-explorer-multi-field.png[Multi field sort in Document Explorer, width="75%"]

> . To change the order of a multi-field sort, select a field in the pop-up, and then drag it to the new location.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. To change the order of a multi-field, select a field in the pop-up, and then drag it to the new location.
```

[float]
[[document-explorer-compare-data]]
=== Compare data

> Select specific documents to compare a subset of data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Select a subset of documents that you want to compare.
```

> . Select the checkboxes of the documents that you want to compare.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Select the documents you want to compare.
```

> . Click the *documents selected* link, and then select *Show selected documents only*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Click and open the *documents selected* options, and then select *Show selected documents only*.
```

click the actions icon for filters and other controls.
. To view documents that occurred before or after the event you are looking at, click <<discover-view-surrounding-documents,Surrounding documents>>.
. For direct access to a particular document, click <<discover-view-single-document,Single document>>.

[float]
[[document-explorer-columns]]

> === Reorder and resize columns

Reviewer 2: I'd suggest to start with this after the information how to enable Document explorer, since it's functionality lots of people have been waiting for. Also a screen showing the columns popover, and maybe one that's showing the cursor when hovering the edge of a column to resize would be nice

Dive into an individual document to view its fields and the documents that occurred before and after it.

> . Click the expand icon.

Reviewer: Instead of `the expand icon`, could you add the image?

+
[role="screenshot"]
image::images/document-explorer-expand.png[Multi field sort in Document Explorer]

. Scan through the fields and their values. If you find a field of interest,

> click the actions icon for filters and other controls.

Reviewer: Instead of `the actions icon`, could you add the image?

> . To view documents that occurred before or after the event you are looking at, click <<discover-view-surrounding-documents,Surrounding documents>>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. To view documents that occurred before or after the event you are looking at, click <<discover-view-surrounding-documents,**Surrounding documents**>>.
```

> . For direct access to a particular document, click <<discover-view-single-document,Single document>>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. For direct access to a particular document, click <<discover-view-single-document,**Single document**>>.
```

[float]
[[document-explorer-full-screen]]
=== View in full screen mode

> To view as much data as possible and eliminate distractions, click the fullscreen icon

Reviewer: Instead of `the fullscreen icon`, can you just use the icon image?
